docs pass & omnigraph overview (#2142)
namehash/ensnode: docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/reference/subgraph-legacy/what-is-the-ens-subgraph.mdx

The following serves as background information regarding the ENS Subgraph and describes the ecosystem & context in which ENSNode was developed. It is not necessary for running ENSNode.
:::

:::caution[Subgraph API Deprecation]

> With the launch of ENSv2 in Summer 2026, the Subgraph-compatible API will become out-of-date; ENSNode still maintains support for the Subgraph-compatible API as described below, but integrators should prefer the ENSv2-ready Omnigraph API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as ENSv2 launches in Summer 2026, the ENS Subgraph can no longer be relied on; ENSNode will still maintain support for the Subgraph-compatible API as described below, but integrators should prefer the ENSv2-ready Omnigraph API.
```

## Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL API Reference

### Well-Known Queries

> These are some of the popular queries we've seen in the wild (namely via ENSjs and ens-app-v3)—the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API includes full compatibility with these use-cases (and all other possible queries with the exceptions listed above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some of the popular queries we've seen in the wild (namely via ENSjs and ens-app-v3)—the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API includes full compatibility with these use-cases (and all other possible queries with the only exception of unplanned features listed below).
```

## Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL API Reference

### Well-Known Queries

> These are some of the popular queries we've seen in the wild (namely via ENSjs and ens-app-v3)—the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API includes full compatibility with these use-cases (and all other possible queries with the only exception of unplanned features listed below).

Author: Same idea covered by a human-reviewer suggestion that landed in e3805bd9b (now reads `…the only exception of unplanned features listed below`). Resolving.

> These are some of the popular queries we've seen in the wild (namely via ENSjs and ens-app-v3)—the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API includes full compatibility with these use-cases (and all other possible queries with the only exception of unplanned features listed below).

Author: Duplicate of the other VADE thread on this line — already addressed in e3805bd9b.

- [`useResolverExists`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useResolverExists.ts#L27) — Checks if a resolver exists
- [`useRegistrationData`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useRegistrationData.ts#L31) — Gets registration by id and nameRegistered events

### Unplanned Features

The following features of the subgraph graphql api are explicitly unsupported and are not planned.

- [1-level-nested Entity `_orderBy` param](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/querying/graphql-api#nested-entity-sorting-example)
- [time travel queries](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/querying/graphql-api#time-travel-queries-example)
- [\_change_block filtering](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/querying/graphql-api#block-based-filtering-example)

> - [subgraph `_Meta_` object](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/querying/graphql-api#subgraph-metadata-example)

Reviewer: My memory is we implemented this already? Please ignore if not relevant.

Author: Leaving the line as-is for now — if `_Meta_` has shipped we can prune in a follow-up. Resolving since you flagged it as ignorable.
